 1. What does the XML language represent? What is it used for? 

Extensible Markup Language (XML) is a markup language that defines a set of rules for encoding documents in a format 
which is both human-readable and machine-readable. It is defined by the W3C's XML 1.0 Specification and by several other related specifications,
all of which are free open standards.

The design goals of XML emphasize simplicity, generality and usability across the Internet. 
It is a textual data format with strong support via Unicode for different human languages. 
XML is widely used for the representation of arbitrary data structures such as those used in web services.

Several schema systems exist to aid in the definition of XML-based languages.
Many application programming interfaces (APIs) have been developed to aid the processing of XML data.

3.  What do namespaces represent in an XML document? What are they used for?

XML namespaces are used for providing uniquely named elements and attributes in an XML document.
They are defined in a W3C recommendation.
An XML instance may contain element or attribute names from more than one XML vocabulary.
If each vocabulary is given a namespace, the ambiguity between identically named elements or attributes can be resolved.

A simple example would be to consider an XML instance that contained references to a student and a course in an university.
Both the student element and the course element could have a child element named Id. 
References to the Id element would therefore be ambiguous; placing them in different namespaces would remove the ambiguity.

4. Explore http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Identifier to learn more about URI, URN and URL definitions.

Uniform Resource Identifier (URI). In computing, this is a string of characters used to identify the name of a resource. 
Such identification enables interaction with representations of the resource over a network, typically the World Wide Web, using specific protocols.
Each URI is defined by schemes specifying a concrete syntax and associated protocols.

Uniform Resource Locator (URL) - the most common form of URI; URL is frequently referred to informally as a web address.
A URL is a URI that, in addition to identifying a web resource, specifies the means of acting upon or obtaining the representation of it,
i.e. specifying both its primary access mechanism and network location.
Example: the URL http://someDomain.org/wiki/Main_Page refers to a resource identified as /wiki/Main_Page whose representation, 
in the form of HTML and related code, is obtainable via HyperText Transfer Protocol (http) from a network host whose domain name is someDomain.org. 
		
Uniform Resource Name (URN) is more rarely seen in usage; URN was designed to complement URLs by providing a mechanism 
for the identification of resources in particular namespaces.
A URN is a URI that identifies a resource by name in a particular namespace. A URN can be used to talk about a resource 
without implying its location or how to access it.

A Uniform Resource Name (URN) functions like a person's name, while a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) resembles that person's street address. 
In other words: the URN defines an item's identity, while the URL provides a method for finding it.